what does awed mented reality and
professional football have to do with
empathy and what is the airspeed
velocity of an unladen swallow
now unfortunately I'm only gonna answer
one of those questions today so please
try and contain your disappointment when
most people think about augmented
reality they think about Minority Report
and Tom Cruise waving his hands in the
air
but augmented reality is not science
fiction augmented reality is something
that will happen in our lifetime and it
will happen because we have the tools to
make it happen and people need to be
aware of that because augmented reality
will change our lives just as much as
the internet and the cell phone now how
do we get to augmented reality
step one is step on morning right now
Google glass I'm sure many of you are
familiar with Google glass well you may
not be familiar with is that Google
glass is a device that will allow you to
see what I see it will allow you to
experience what it is like to be a
professional athlete on the field right
now the only way you can be on the field
is for me to try and describe it to you
I have to use words I have to create a
framework that you then fill in with
your imagination with Google glass we
can put that underneath a helmet and we
can get a sense of what it's like to be
running down the field at a hundred
miles an hour your blood pounding in
your ears you need a sense of what it's
like to have a 250-pound man sprinting
at you trying to decapitate you with
every ounce of his being and I've been
on the receiving end of that and it
doesn't feel very good now I have some
footage to show you of what it's like to
wear Google glass underneath the helmet
to give you a taste of that
unfortunately it's not NFL practice
footage because the NFL thinks emergent
technology is what happens when a
submarine surfaces but
we do what we can so let's pull up some
video hold on a little closer
ready so as you can see small taste of
what it's like to get tackled on the
football field from the perspective of
the tackle II now you may have noticed
there are some people missing there the
rest of the team we have some video of
that courtesy of the University of
Washington this takes you a little bit
closer to what it's like to be on that
field but this is nowhere what it's like
to be on the NFL fans want that
experience fans want to be on that field
they want to be their favorite players
and they've already talked to me on
YouTube they've talked to me on Twitter
saying hey can you get this on a
quarterback can you get this on a
running back we want that experience
well once we have that experience with
GoPro and Google glass how do we make it
more immersive how do we take that next
step well we take that step by going to
something called the oculus rift which
I'm sure many of you are also familiar
with the oculus rift has been described
as one of the most realistic virtual
reality devices ever created and that is
not empty hype I'm going to show you why
that is not empty hype with this video
[Music]
so that is the experience of a man on a
roller coaster in fear of his life what
do you think that fans experience is
going to be when we take the video
footage of an Adrian Peterson bursting
through the line shedding a tackler with
a stiff arm before sprinting in for a
touchdown what do you think that fans
experience is going to be when he's
Messi sprinting down the pitch putting
the ball in the back of the net or
Federer serving and Wimbledon what do
you think his experience is going to be
when he is going down the side of a
mountain at over 70 miles an hour as an
Olympic downhill skier
I think adult diaper sales may search
but this is not yet augmented reality
this is only virtual reality VR how do
we get to augmented reality AR we get to
augmented reality when coaches and
managers and owners look at this
information streaming in that people
want to see and they say how do we use
this to make our teams better how do we
use this to win games because teams
always use technology to win games
they like winning it makes the money so
a brief history of technology in the NFL
1965 Baltimore Colts put a wristband on
their quarterback to allow him to call
plays quicker they ended up winning a
Super Bowl that year other teams
followed suit more people watched the
game because it was more exciting it was
faster in 1994 the NFL put helmet radios
into the helmets of the quarterbacks and
later the defense more people watched
games because it was faster it was more
entertaining in 2023 imagine you're a
player walking back to the huddle and
you have your next play displayed right
in front of your face on your clear
plastic visor that you already wear
right now no more having to worry about
forgetting plays no more worrying about
having to memorize or play book you just
go out and react and coaches really want
this because missed assignments lose you
games and coaches hate losing
losing games gets you fired as a coach
they don't they don't want that
but augmented reality is not just
enhanced PlayBook augmented reality is
also a way to take all that data and use
it in real time to enhance how you play
the game what would that be like well a
very simple setup would be a camera on
each corner of the stadium looking down
giving you a bird's-eye view of all the
people down there you also have
information from helmet sensors and
accelerometers technology that's being
worked on right now you take all that
information and you stream it to your
players the good teams stream it in a
way that the players can use the bad
ones have information overload that
determines good teams from bad and now
your IT department is just as important
as your scouting Department and data
mining is not for nerds anymore it's
also for jocks who knew what would that
look like on the field
well imagine you're the quarterback you
take the snap and you drop back you're
scanning downfield for an open receiver
all of a sudden a bright flash on the
left side of your visor lets you know
blind side linebacker is blitzing in
normally you wouldn't be able to see him
but the augmented reality system lets
you know you step up into the pocket
another flash alerts you to an open
receiver you throw the ball but you're
hit right is you're thrown the ball
comes off track you don't know where
it's gonna land however on the receivers
visor he sees a patch of grass light up
and he knows to readjust he goes catches
the ball sprints in touchdown crowd goes
wild and the fans are with him every
step of the way
watching from every perspective now this
is something that will create massive
excitement in the game it'll make the
you know tons of people watch because
people want this experience vans want to
be on the field they want to be their
favorite player augmented reality will
be a part of sports because it's too
profitable not to but the question I ask
you is is that all that we're content to
use augmented reality for are we going
to use it solely for our Panem our
Cirque enza's our entertainment it's
normal because I believe that we can use
augmented reality for something more I
believe we can use augmented reality is
a way to foster more empathy within the
human species itself by literally
showing someone what it looks
like to walk a mile in another person's
shoes we know what this technology is
worth to sports leagues it's worth
revenue to the tune of billions of
dollars a year but what is this
technology worth to a teacher in a
classroom trying to show a bully just
how harmful his actions are from the
perspective of the victim what is this
technology worth to a gay Ugandan or
Russian trying to show the world what
it's like living under persecution what
is this technology worth to a commander
Hadfield or a Neil deGrasse Tyson trying
to inspire a generation of children to
think more about space and science
instead of quarterly reports and
Kardashians
ladies and gentlemen augmented reality
is coming the questions we ask the
choices we make and the challenges we
face are as always up to us thank you
[Applause]
[Music]